so I have a list for you today it is a
list of books that are really great
books and they are also books that you
could read in a day now usually I don't
emphasize reading books quickly on this
channel I like to talk about quality
rather than quantity but really by
saying that these are books that you can
read in a day what I'm really saying is
that these are fairly short books I
think every single book I'm going to
recommend is under 300 Pages a lot of
them are under uh 250 or right around
that Mark and some of these are really
classic books uh from the Western Canon
a few of them are a little more modern
one of them came out only a year or two
ago either way I think you're gonna like
pretty much all of them and if I left
out a book that you think should be on a
list like this let me know down in the
comments because I'm always looking for
more books and maybe we can help
recommend books to each other so I have
seven books to recommend and I want to
make this kind of a fast video so let's
just go ahead and get started the first
book is the Martian Chronicles by Ray
Bradbury now I actually hesitated to put
this book on the list and and that's
because it's actually not like a single
story it's a series of vignettes all
centered around Mars and there's no
framing story I was thinking that if you
were kind of hanging out you know by
your window or in a good chair on like a
Saturday and just trying to read a book
in one day it might be a little bit
harder to sustain interest uh because
there isn't that framing story with that
kind of narrative pacing that's going to
get you there however I just think it's
a really great book and you don't have
to actually read the books in a day
right but it's a great little short book
I think it's better within Fahrenheit
451 uh I think it just shows Brad
Barry's writing skills a lot better
um and sort of the depth and breadth of
his creativity the second book is The
Narrative of the Life of Frederick
Douglass we are actually going to be
talking about this book on a podcast
episode WE Post those to YouTube but you
can also find us on your podcast app
it's just called the classical mind that
episode is going to come out in December
so this would be a great time to make
sure that you're subscribed or maybe go
support us at the classicalmind.com
either way that book is astounding it is
one of the few books that I would say
should be absolutely required reading
for every student in the United States
probably by the time you leave high
school you should have read that book
especially considering that Douglas had
to teach himself how to read and write
um under horrifying conditions and so he
didn't have what we would consider to be
a very modern education but he's an
astounding writer um his prose is really
good uh but also he has this kind of
moral Clarity there's no hedging there's
no caveat he just says the truth as he
sees it
and it it's a really good story
um but also it really talks a lot about
sort of from a philosophical lens some
of the horrors of slavery you know it's
enough to recount the physical Horrors
and the political Horrors um all of
which real but Douglas has a way of
talking about it which also speaks to
its effect on the soul and the human
person and that applies for basically
everyone involved in that horrifying
institution uh the third book is Beowulf
uh it's an epic poem it's a good story
it's fairly easy to read
um I haven't read a ton of like
alternative translations I just say I
think I've read the hini translation
before I think it's good I think it
would be pretty easy for you to read
this is also going to be a podcast
episode for us um that's going to be the
February episode
um
and so I you know you could read this in
a day and you'd be preparing to listen
along to a long-form discussion the next
book
um is a poetry collection
um by Wendell Berry it's the Mad farmer
poems this is a little more recent and
so I I understand if maybe you don't
think this is going to maybe easily fit
into sort of Classics like you might
come to this channel for Wendell Berry
is one of my favorite living writers
however and I just highly recommend all
of his work I love his essays I love his
poetry I'm not as familiar with his
novels
um but he's he's just astounding the Mad
farmer poems um I read it in about an
hour and I think you could do the same
however um I would say that this is a
collection you're going to come back to
it's a collection I need to come back to
as well Wendell Berry is really casting
a vision of a kind of life that we could
all live it is more agrarian it's more
idyllic it involves hard work and it
involves a kind of rootedness to the
land and Community if that sounds at all
appealing to you then I think you will
like these poems every time I read
window Larry I think that I want to move
uh every time I read window Berry I
think I want to move back to the Midwest
buy a farm and maybe turn the internet
off forever it's really really good
stuff he hasn't convinced me quite yet
but you know we're getting closer the
next book is Invisible Cities by Italo
Calvino I would say that if you are
someone who maybe likes fantasy novels I
know that there are a lot of you who
watch this channel but you're maybe
looking to get into a slightly more
literary uh frame or type of reading
Calvino is a great entryway Calvino is
telling a very uh magical mystifying
strange intriguing story he's building
worlds for you but it's it's poetic and
it's just
it's surreal it's it's
I feel like almost every word that I can
come up with falls short of just how
good it is
um this is a book that I haven't read in
quite a long time it's a little hard for
me to talk about specifics because of
that
um but as I was compiling this list and
I realized Calvin needed to be on it I
just said okay cool uh this weekend I
guess I'm gonna read Invisible Cities
again because I mean what a book
um Calvino wrote a lot of other books
Cosmo Comics the non-existent night he
has translations of Italian Folk Tales
um all of them I think are quite good
and uh worth digging into the next book
I don't can't seem to find it um I can't
seem to find it on our shelves we
recently reorganized our bookcases and
um we must have misplaced this book but
I'll find it and uh that's Descartes
meditations I have talked about
Descartes on this channel before I
recommended him as part of my uh eight
philosophy books you should read with
the meditations you know they are quite
short and you could read them in a day
now the meditations are deceptively
simple they are actually really quite
dense um my wife who's a fellow
philosopher took a class where they
spent a month reading four pages of
Descartes there is so much there and so
don't think that if you read it in a day
you're going to get everything out of it
but as I've suggested before you should
consider maybe doing your kind of quick
and dirty and fast read of a book where
you try to read it as fast as possible
to understand the point of the work
and the general structure of the
dialectic and then you can dive into the
details later and that's what I would
recommend that you do with the
meditations so you know curl up in a
nice chair
um and then sort of go through these
thought experiments with Descartes maybe
don't assess the arguments too
rigorously yet always be thinking about
that a little bit but just try to
understand and then you can evaluate
later when you go back and you do that
second more thorough read another book
that's not on my shelf and that's
because I only own a digital copy and I
definitely need to fix that is Notes
from Underground by Theodore Dostoevsky
anyone who watches this channel knows
that dostoyesky is one of my favorite
writers they know that crime and
punishment is probably my favorite book
but you can't read crime and punishment
in the day no surrender ground is not
nearly as good as crime and punishment
in my mind but it is quite good and I
think it shows some of that almost
slapstick style that um dostoyowsky Can
engage in this kind of absurdism
um and it's also a nice introduction to
kind of the literary side of
existentialism I can see why people pair
this with works by Sarah kamu when
they're teaching existentialism classes
um and and for a lot of you who might be
interested in both literature and
philosophy dostoyesky is really a
natural uh writer to read because he's
kind of doing both at the same time
that's part of the the magic of of his
writing and my final recommendation
today is is piranesi by uh Susannah
Clark Susannah Clark has this other
wonderful book uh Jonathan strange and
Mr morale that book is uh really long
can't read that in a day piranese you
can read in the day and in fact it is
one of maybe two or three books on this
list that I actually did read in a day I
could not put piranesi down it blew me
away
um I think that it has been generally
critically claimed it might have won an
award or two and I'm going to tell you
it deserved more Acclaim and more Awards
There is almost no amount of Praise that
I think would be excessive for this work
Clark is a lot like Calvino actually I
think Calvino and Clark are natural
pairings on this list
um both on the kind of fantasy side
Clark is being considered a fancy author
by a lot of people but writing
incredibly literary works as well
um piranesi is beautiful it is
Fantastical it is mysterious and it is
also thrilling so if you want a good
story an interesting World almost
philosophical Reflections on the nature
of memory and of time and of identity
then actually you're gonna get all of
that in Clark and that's like a perfect
package so many people can do the very
beautiful pros and the literary side of
things but the story can be a little
boring or so many people can tell a
great story but they maybe lack those
other literary virtues not with Clark
Clark can do it all she is one of the
Heavy Hitters of the contemporary
literature World in my opinion all right
that's the list for you I would love to
hear your recommendations put those down
in the comments and uh just as a
reminder we have a podcast and you can
support us on substack at the
classicalmind.com in February we have an
upcoming episode where our paid
supporters are on substack actually get
to help us pick the book so if that
sounds interesting to you that would be
something to check out we also opened up
a subset chat so we sometimes chat on
there and just in general it's a way to
help keep this project going all right
that's all I have for you now so take
care